Learning Objective

At the end of this topic you will able to :
1) What data is and where it is avilable 
2) Explain what a varible is.
3) Explain the types of variable.

What is data? 
Data is information about something
this information is number, images, audio, video, images etc.

what is a varible ?

A variable represent a specific characteristics of the data or tells one specific information about the data under consideration
A variable can take any value like number and character

It is called as varible because it values change across different data point
for call duration for different call will be different

Types of varibles 
-- Numeric or quatitative variable (Which can be measure)
-- Categorical or qualitative variable ( Which can not be measured)

Numeric varible are those which is quatifiable.
They can be measured or counted or expressed in the numeric format

Chategorical varible are those which are like adjective and express as a feeling or characteristics.


Numeric variable can be subdivided into two category
1) Continous    2) discrete

1) Continuous variable : continuous varible are those numeric variable which can take any value bwteen certain set of real numbers.
2) Discrete variable : discrete variable are those which are countable and can take any whole numbers as values

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Learning objective:
At the end of this topic you will able to:
1) Explain what dependent and independent variable
2) Differentiate between dependent and independent varible 
3) Explain what structured and unstructured data is 
4) Differentiate between structured and unstructured data

Independent varible
: Independent varibles are those whose values does not depend on any other varibles.

Dependent variable
: Dependent variable are the ones whose value depend on other independent variables and can not change easly.

Structured data :
What is structured data?
Structured varible always have a format or structured when they are stored.

Unstructured data:
Data which does not have a well define structure and is not arrange in any tabular form.













Categorical variable can not be numeric in nature consist of text or string .

Categorical variable can be sub-divided into ordinal and nominal variable
1) Ordinal varible are those categorical varible which can be arranged in a logical order 
2) Nominal variable are those categorical variables which can not ranked based on their values.



